From Hansel minutes.com. It's Hanselman.
It's a weekly discussion with
web developer and technologists. Scott
Hanselman hosted by Carl Franklin. This
is Lawrence Ryan announcing show number
67. Recorded live Wednesday, May 30th
of 2007. Support for Hanselman.
This is provided by Tellerik
already controls the most comprehensive
suite of components for windows
forums and asp.net web applications.
online@wwwdottlerikdotcomandby.net developers journal the world's
leading.net developer magazine online at
www dot  dot com.
In this fourth episode of
Hansel, minutia, Scott, and crawled
discuss recent technology changes and
upgrades. Hi, this is Carl Franklin
and you're listening to Hanselman.
It's from Hanselman it's dot
com. Here I am with
Scott Hanselman. How you doing
Scott? I'm well, yourself. I'm
great. Thanks. And this show
is a, another Hanselman new
show. We were deciding what
to do and what to
talk about. And there's just
too many little things that
are kind of newsworthy. Yeah.
I mean, we could though
we'll get back into some
dotnet stuff next week, but
it seemed to me that
there were so many things
that could be talked about
that were not necessarily worth
20 minutes of our time,
but you know, it's an
interesting week. Let's talk about
Apple first. Okay. Because there's
at least three things about
Apple that we should talk
about. Yeah. Well, I guess
they went DRM free today
for EMI music. I just
fired up iTunes on my
box and was told that
iTunes 7.2 appear Today being
May 30th, the recording date. All
right, this is a Wednesday.
Yeah. And when you, when
you log in, they automatically
detect what music on your
system is from the EMI
publishing group. And they give
you the opportunity for 30 cents
a song to upgrade them
to two 56 K DRM
free AAC. There's another word
it's just straight, straight copies.
No copy protection, no, anything
like that straight A's. This
would mean that my wife's
Zune would be able to
listen to the EMI music
from my library. EMI is
taking a, you know, a
bold step there by announcing
their DRM free. They, they
basically seen the demise of
DRM and eroding people's confidence
in people's purchasing habits in
forcing people to pirate music.
I think this is what
happens. You know, the industry
is waking up to the
fact that DRM doesn't work
Well. They just don't want
to be on the wrong
side of history. And I
know that DRM has caused
me a number of headaches
over the years. I've constantly
not constantly. A couple of
times I've had to call
Apple. I hit that five
computers authorization limit, right? Because
I've upgraded a machine and
I forgot to de authorize
the computer before. And I've
always had that kind of
question in my mind that,
you know, what happens if
iTunes or Apple goes away,
or if some new format
comes out and I've got
all these songs that are
trapped in my, in my
existing format. So it's, it's
a start, but it sounds
like there's a couple of
glitches. There's some confusion about
you can't upgrade just an
album or just a song
right now. It's all or
nothing. So you just take
all the EMI songs on
your system, times 30 cents and
you get one price, but
it might be an old
song I'm on all the
album. You're not interested in
listening to anymore. So that's
a little bit of a,
of a glitch. Also, they're
going to still hold your
username inside of the song.
So if you had the
ideas that you were going
to somehow throw all that,
now DRM free music that
you purchased up on a
file sharing service. Your name
is still going to be
in there, your Apple user
name and personal information. Certainly
there'll be ways to strip
that out. But the point
is that the it's not
quite, not quite there. And
it's certainly never going to
be appropriate to throw that
kind of music up on
a file sharing service, but
it's a step in the
right direction personally. I think
I'm going to just hang
back and wait until all
of my music can be
converted to DRM free rather
than a, than being an
early adopter on this particular
thing. But it's still, I
think it's a great move
and a more brilliance on
the part of Steve jobs.
I agree. And it's ultimately
a good business move to,
I think for everybody. Oh
yeah. Also Apple announced today,
the iTunes U section of
the iTunes store, did you
see this right iTunes university?
And this is a, a
place on iTunes that's dedicated
to free content, such as
course lectures, language lessons, lab,
demonstrations, sports highlights, and campus
tours that are provided by
us colleges and universities like
Stanford, UC Berkeley, Duke university,
and MIT. Wow. That's interesting
because I've, I've got a
bunch of lectures from MIT
that I had downloaded some
of the, you know, the
classic computer science stuff that
you can find right. Where
somebody filmed from years ago
and they've got a lot
of free content up there
and was at Stanford. That's
got a great deal of
free. Yeah. Stanford. There's a,
there's a website where they
have just a ton of
video content from lectures. Interestingly,
right now on the, just
at, at the time of
recording, those URLs are broken.
I just tried to go
to iTunes U and it
didn't work. I got a
four Oh four, Well, this,
this came out today. So
they they're either getting hammered
or they're fixing bugs probably
more likely. It's still a
fantastic idea. Yeah. It's going
to make it easier. If
people can use the iTunes
process, the iTunes workflow for
putting this data around and
you've already seen a number
of universities decide to give
away iPods. Yes. Just say,
you know, welcome to the
university and here's your free
iPod. It's part of the,
part of the process. People
have already kind of informally
started to record lectures and
things like that. And now
they're gonna be able to
get those things. So getting
your homework, you know Exactly.
And you have a Mac,
what kind of Mac do
you have? Okay. So I
didn't actually end up buying
it. So what's going on
is that I borrowed John
Lamb's Mac and I wanted
around the rails conference showing
people demos of the, the
dynamic language runtime. And I
wanted to borrow his Mac,
not only because I was
excited about the DLR and
Silverlight, but because I wanted
to see what it was
like to really experience a
Mac. Now I do have
a Mac mini, but it's
kind of a crappy Mac
mini from six months ago.
It's not like the super
Intel core two duo, but
John's is fully loaded. Three
gigs of Ram core two.
And I, I filled it
up with all sorts of
stuff that I probably shouldn't
have. Cause it's a, he'll
have to uninstall it when
he gets it. I put
on parallels and VMware fusion
and I installed two copies
of Vista on it. And
I've been doing some different,
different tests and stuff. It's
the top of the line
Mac book pro that, that
John loaned me and I
went to the Apple store
and asked the guy if
I should buy. And he
said, give it a week
or two, because the, the
Apple developers conference WWDC is
going to be June 11th. And
he says, just wait, whatever
you want to buy today
is going to drop in
price 500 bucks. There'll be
a new one. That'll come
out. You probably want that.
One is what he said.
So I'm going to, I'm
considering getting a Mac book
pro. I want to be
able to run Vista on
it. And I tell you
this, this parallels parallels is
one of the VM tools
that the Apple has $79.
It's kind of their virtual
PC. Wow. Really fantastic. The
thing that's really significant about
it is that as a
compliment to boot camp boot
camp is the dual boot
stuff that lets you own
Vista on another partition. You
can partition your Mac half
and half or whatever you
like. So you can have
Apple on one Macko S
tan on one partition and
this on another, but then
you can launch into
run a virtual machine and
tell the VM that you
want the disc it to
use to be the other
partition. So you could do
a boot, leave something on
your desktop, right? Like a
file. Do a boot again,
come into  run a
VM. And your file is
still there. Wow. So you
can have the native speed
running outside of macro S
10 running Vista natively, and
then you can run it
in a VM. So I've,
I've been using visual studio
on it, running orcas and
having a blast. It's it's
a really great windows laptop.
I've been really impressed. Now,
the other thing that was
announced today was came from
Palm and shrinks.com P I
five Palm introduced some sort
of new laptop Palm top
thing. What is this? Yeah,
they call it the folio.
I think that ARS Technica
said it correctly when they
said, and their recent headline
Palm officially out of ideas,
1990s Palm top. Yeah. If
you've ever used the cyan
or familiar with Saigon PSI,
O N was a British
company, 1991 through 1994, came
up with some really amazing
stuff. That was like the
new kind of thing. Yeah.
Well, it was like, it
was the anti new, it
was the Newton, but it
was the anti Newton. So
while Apple was innovating with
the Newton doing a slate
style touchscreen, these guys felt
it was all about the
clam top format. It was
a clam shell. Open it
up with, with an almost
full sized keyboard. They started
out with a small push
button keyboard, and then they
came out with the siren
five. I think it was
the five MX. Yeah, that
was the one I had.
And this is like 96,
16 megs of Ram big
wide screen. And it had
this amazing little keyboard that
kind of came out of
nowhere. It folded open. And
the Palm folio is basically
a tiny laptop. Remember windows
CE tried to do this.
I actually had a little,
IBM. It looked like a
tiny ThinkPad. It was the
IBM X 41. No, remember
this little tiny thing, it
looked like it was I'm
trying to forget actually it
was like an infant's ThinkPad.
Right. And it ran, it
was gorgeous. And it was
a cute little thing. I
had, I had one of
these that had 16 megs
of Ram and it ran
windows CE and it had
a little, a ThinkPad pointer
and it lasted forever. The
batteries lasted forever, but it
had had pocket word and
it had pocket Excel, Probably
they they're, they're really only
telling us the folio has
three features, email attachments, and
web browsing. I mean, those
are the details, you know,
that they go into. So
it's really just an ad.
They say, it's an add
on for your Palm and
they're introducing it at four
99. So it's not like
a full Well, and to
be clear, that's four 99
after $100 rebate. Oh, okay.
Well, so that means that's
there, they're overtly eating a
hundred dollars there. So who
knows how much it really
costs. But it's interesting if
you take a phone on
the far kind of the
far left of an imaginary
scale and you take the
desktop replacement super laptop, like
the one that you've got
on the far right of
that scale and you move
kind of towards each other
while you've got people coming
out with more and more
powerful sub notebooks, like the
and the Sonys, and
some of the Fujitsu life
books that are getting smaller
and smaller, full featured laptops.
You've got the ultra mobile
PCs, the origami brand origami
code name PCs from Microsoft.
A bunch of those, we
saw mix very, very tiny
tenants' screens, almost look like
a Newton, but they were
on Vista and that's heading
to the left while on
the other side, they're from
the left, heading off to
the right, you've got phones
getting more and more and
more full featured. I saw
a Verizon phone recently that
would flip, open vertically and
flip horizontally and let you
watch television brother has one.
You know, the thing is,
I don't think this is
going to work because the
middle size device is not
good at doing either very
well. You know, the laptop
is good when you have
a table, a place to
sit and to work, or
you just have a chair,
you open it up, you
put it on your knees
or whatever. And the phone
is good if you're just,
you know, on the train,
walking around, you know, in
a, in a restaurant and
you want to know your,
your spouse and your family,
you know, I don't think,
I don't think a, a
mid sized device works well
in either of those situations.
Right? I think when a
device tries to be a
cop out or a companion,
it's going, it's relegated immediately
to being a niche. I
mean, basically they're saying here's
a tiny device that turns
on really quick when the
screen on your phone is
too small and it works
great with the poem. And
if anyone's interested rather than
shipping with support for windows
mobile and for Blackberry, we'll
leave that up in the
air. If you care. It
seems to me like a
more effective thing to do
would have been to make
it more of a, a
more controversial shape rather than
trying to look like a
laptop. I mean, it looks
like it Tiny laptops and
therefore you're going to be
disappointed when you find out
it doesn't have laptop feet.
Exactly. So why not make
it not look like a
laptop? Why not make it
look like an eight inch
screen, a companion screen? You
know, the windows side show
equivalent, just as windows side
show attempts to be tiny
auxiliary devices for an auxiliary
screens for your laptop. Where's
my giant screen. If I've
got a phone that already
has a keyboard on it,
why not give me a,
like a quote unquote, Bluetooth
screen and Bluetooth keyboard. Let
the phone be the brain.
If the phone be all
the, you know, the computer
make the phone smarter, the
phone's already got two gigs
or VRA of, of SD
card Ram. Right? I've got
one of these, a windows
mobile, six devices from HTC,
and I've got a micro
SD card. Have you seen
this card? I almost swallowed
it. Yeah. It's very, very
tiny way too small. If
you don't get it in
the device quickly, it'll blow
away in the wind. The
device, I think has got
a half gig of its
own plus the two gigs.
So they go two and
a half gigs in a
tiny little device like this.
Why do I need another
device with screens and batteries
and buttons for me to
manage? And it runs Linux.
I've got a device already.
Where's my remote display protocol,
right? What, let that you
know, sell the screen and
let it, let it be
a companion in that way.
Then you might have, you
know, imagine just having a
screen and a keyboard, a
dumb terminal to your phone,
which is sitting in your,
in your bank, you know,
Bluetooth, Bluetooth, remote desktop. Yep.
This thing just seems like
it's neither an organizer nor
a laptop. Now we're bad.
Mouthing is a device we've
never seen, but it sure
seems like Palm. Well, we're
badmouthing the idea. We haven't
seen the device. Sure. Right.
But, but that all comes
down to, this has been
done before. Right. Let's move
on a Microsoft surface. Now,
this also was announced today.
And was it today or
yesterday? I can't remember, but
I didn't see it in
here. Anything about this yesterday.
So it must be today.
Apparently there's been a team
inside of Microsoft. That's been
working on this since 2001,
according to the website and
they have a timeline 2001,
2003, four, five and seven.
And this is a 30
inch diagonal display table. It's
actually a table with a
glass table top that has
a 30 inch monitor a
projector underneath and sensors on
the sides and whatever. It's
the minority report machine. You
know, that you can manipulate
with your fingers, with your
hands. You take your fingers
and diagonally move them in
different directions to zoom out.
You zoom in by squeezing
your fingers together. One feature
that I I read about
was great. That you can
take a camera that has
a wifi adapter on it.
A digital camera just put,
place it on the table
and all the pictures just
sort of spill out of
it onto the screen. Like
they have animations of your
pictures, just oozing out of
the place where your camera
is, and then blowing up
in spilling in a, in
a series, in like a
pile of photos, Right. It
introduces a new kind of
a more obvious metaphor. I
mean, I've always tried to
explain to family members and
nontechnical folks that this is
your desktop. This is where
your stuff lives. Right. You
know, and try to explain
them the difference between the
desktop and the filing cabinet.
You know, this is where
you put your temporary stuff
and then your more longterm
storage stuff goes here. But
that metaphor has always been
a bit abstract. It's abstract.
It's one, it's one level
removed because it's not your
finger, it's a mouse pointer.
Right? So there's your hand
on the mouse? The mouse
moves the pointer, the pointer
does the work, as opposed
to your finger doing the
work. That's why I've always
kind of preferred the idea
of a, of a tablet
PC that used my finger
rather than a stylist. I
remember being at VBS. I
think it was in the
early nineties when Alan Cooper had
just come out with his
book about face and he
asked the audience, what is
the best pointing device we
have in somebody? You know,
there's a bunch of answers
from the audience. And then
he just held up his
finger, you know, and this
is what we're talking about.
The finger is That's making
the metaphor natural. Yeah, absolutely.
I mean like around here,
you know, CheckFree the company
that just bought us. I
saw one of their conference
rooms for video conferencing. And,
you know, you could have
a screen with people up
on it, showing the people
in another room, or you
could blow up the entire
wall and make it like
a virtual portal through there.
And then if you could
collaborate on that wall, you
know, and blur the line
of where the computer is,
why do we have to
look at all of the
work that we're trying to
accomplish through these tiny
through these lenses of these
metaphors, as well as these
tiny view ports, right? So
the idea that rather than
having a, a 15 inch
screen or a 17 inch,
and I have to, to
visualize that this is a
desktop, you know, just take
that whole monitor and make
it your desk. I think
that while that sounds cool,
what you should see when
you look@surface.com and it should
focus on are the, the
ways that that could more
naturally interact with real things
in the world. So like
the example you gave, you
put a, put a device
on the table and then
a circle goes around it
to indicate that it's found
the device, right? And then
you could pick something up.
Like you could look at
a map, take a number
of maps would be a
fabulous. You could take a
number of locations and then
pull those locations into the
circle where your phone or
your PDA lives. And then
they automatically get uploaded into
the device. It's a much
more natural way of thinking
about things. Additionally, you could
put a credit card down
on the table, right. It
could then say, Hey, it's
Scott. And then I could
look at a catalog of
things. Yeah. Pull them over
to the credit card. They
could orbit it. Like they
were in a shopping cart.
Yeah. And multiple people could
potentially do that. So yeah.
There's nothing, this notion of
multipoint, there's a rumor that
multi-point technology will be in
the next version of OS
10. I think it's codenamed
leopard, meaning multiple people could
be manipulating objects on the
screen at once. Right. Right.
And this is something that
I asked Microsoft for a
couple of years ago, few
years ago now in a
blog post that I think
got some play and some
traction. But anyway, I'm not
the first one to think
of this is that, you
know, what I wanted the
surface for was mixing, right?
I mean, you have audio
engineers right now tend to
like the hardware mixing desks
with the knobs that go
up and down because it's
tactical. They understand the metaphor,
they get it. Right. The
problem with digital audio mixers
is that it's all like
on the screen with a
mouse and you can only
pull down and move up
one fader at one time.
So if you're in a
live sound situation, you certainly
can't use that. What if
you're in a live sound
situation you want to record
on the, on the computer?
Well, you have to now
use a outboard gear mixer.
But that means that that
changes the color in the,
in the hardware that is
processing the audio signal and
it takes it out of
the computer. So you're in
the analog domain. Well, they
have digital mixers too, but
that's a different story. So,
so you would like to
be able to just put
your hands on the screen
and you know, you got
10 fingers, so let's put
eight of them on different
faders and move them all
at the same time. Bruin
bill said, you know, a
desktop PC on everyone's desk,
a PC on everyone's desk.
Yeah. If right now they're
starting by making this a,
you know, an entertainment and
hotel and casino devices, people
who can afford the $10,000
to, to make something like
this happen, but just There's
a thousand. I think it
was 30,000, I think so.
Yeah. Like it should be
that much considering that you
can buy a 30 inch
screen from Apple for 1200
bucks. If I install it
into a coffee table and
add a touch screen over
the top of it, it
shouldn't be 30 grand. Well,
I think that just means
that someday I'll be able
to buy a $1,500 coffee
table and make this happen.
So I'm just wondering if
this means, you know, a
coffee table, surface PC and,
and anyone's, and everyone House
certainly would be cool. The
Microsoft research and looked at
them, Microsoft home on campus.
Yeah. I was invited to
go out there and Richard
went, but I didn't go,
I couldn't go. I had
to work, but they've got
this Home where they've got
a, a surface, like, experience
where you're basically preparing a
menu and you ask for
a recipe and they project
it onto your, on your
kitchen counter, basically following along
with the recipe. That's awesome.
I mean, if you could
think that every flat surface
in your house could potentially
become a screen. Right. But
then you get into that
kind of Idiocracy is a
movie about that. Where, you
know, when, where, when did
the banner ads begin, right.
When do you start having
popups on your, on your
wall and a advertisement on
your kitchen counter? Yup. Looks
like you're making brownies. Well
let's how are we going
to wrap up the show?
We talked about a few
things. So real, they really
sort of disparate things, I
guess. I guess we could
just say, you know, thanks
for listening. It's been a
minutia type show again. Yeah.
It is random. Hopefully people
don't mind the mind that
every once in a while
we have these rounding error
shows where it's like, wasn't
enough to make a whole
show on by themselves. But
these are the kinds of
things that we're thinking about.
And if there's something that
you're thinking about that you
think we haven't covered, you
know, send me an email,
you know, my email address,
it's justScott@hanselman.com. My first name
at my last name, hopefully
the spammers. Won't be able
to figure that out with
speech to text software, but
yeah, send me an email
or go to my homepage,
enhancement.com and send us a
note. I know we've got
a lot of things in
the queue. We're going to
talk about ORM. I know
that you guys over at
Dutton at rocks just did
some or, or M discussion
object, relational mapping. I'm going
to cover that a little
bit. Talk a little bit
more about what's coming in
asp.net orcas. Some of the,
the futures that are coming
in asp.net around Atlas. Yeah.
I think we're going to
probably want to do a
JavaScript library smack down a
little bit. jQuery. Talk about
dojo is different libraries, Especially
dynamic JavaScript. That's interesting. What's
this dynamic JavaScript. Yeah. Can
manage JavaScript. Oh, DLR. You're
talking about. Yeah. So the
using basically an ECMAScript running
in the browser inside of
Silverlight and getting full.net support.
Yeah. I think that's silver
light as a bridge between
managed and unmanaged. JavaScript is
going to be really interesting.
Should we talk about the
future of JavaScript? Because while
Microsoft is off developing things
like the DLR, you've got
Mozilla talking about including basically
a JavaScript compiler and you
know, in a 100 or
1000 times faster JavaScript, Jitter
running inside of Mozilla. So
more and more the browser
is going to be smart.
And if the ECMAScript spec
gets ratified, then it's all
that ratified. Then we're going
to be in a really
good spot. Well, that's another
show for now. Thanks for
listening. And thank you, Scott.
.